The idyllic valley nestled in the Balinok Mountains was a slice of heaven to those who knew of its existence before [[Strahd von Zarovich|Strahd]]'s arrival. The serenity of the place was forever shattered when Strahd led a
bloody crusade against the enemies of his family that ended here with the slaughter of hundreds. Struck by the scenic beauty of his most recent conquest and eager to escape the shadow of his father's legacy, Strahd made the valley his home and named it [[Barovia]] after the late King Barov, his father. <mark style="background: #FFB86CA6;">The land now called Barovia is no longer part of the world that Strahd once tried to conquer. It now exists within a demiplane formed by Strahd's consciousness and surrounded by a deadly fog. No creature can leave without Strahd's permission, and those that try become lost in the mist.</mark>

<mark style="background: #BBFABBA6;">Strahd allows the [[Vistani]] to come and go as they please because he admires their lust for life and their willingness to serve him when he needs them. He also owes an ancient debt to the Vistani people.</mark> As a soldier centuries ago, he suffered a grievous injury in battle, and the Vistani tended his wounds and returned him safely to his family without making any demand for payment. The Vistani claim to possess potions that allow them to leave Strahd's domain, but the potions are false
concoctions with no magical power. Nevertheless, the Vistani are willing to sell them for a hefty price.

Native Barovians have been terrorized for centuries by the one they call "the devil Strahd." Only a handful of them have the will to oppose him. Barovians congregate in the valley's three main settlements—[[The Village of Barovia|the villages of Barovia]] and [[The Village of Krezk|Krezk]] and [[The Town of Vallaki|the town of Vallaki]]—for fear of falling prey to wolves and other beasts that prowl the woods. Among these people are the [[Keepers of the Feather|Keepers of the Feather]], a secret society of [[Wereraven|wereravens]]. Not powerful enough to defeat Strahd on their own, the Keepers readily assist adventurers who find themselves drawn into Strahd's domain.